implement multiple .readthedocs.yml files per repo (#10001)
readthedocs/readthedocs.org: docs/user/guides/setup/monorepo.rst

   If you do this,
   older versions of the project will not be able to build again.

Adding an additional project from the same repository
-----------------------------------------------------

Once you have added the first project from the :ref:`Import Wizard <intro/import-guide:Automatically import your docs>`,
it will show as if it has already been imported and cannot be imported again.
In order to add another project with the same repository,
you will need to use the :ref:`Manual Import <intro/import-guide:Manually import your docs>`.

Setting the custom build configuration file
-------------------------------------------

Once you have added a Git repository to a project that needs a custom configuration file path,
navigate to :menuselection:`Admin --> Advanced Settings` and add the path to the :guilabel:`Build configuration file` field.

.. image:: /img/screenshot-howto-build-configuration-file.png
   :alt: Screenshot of where to find the :guilabel:`Build configuration file` setting.

After pressing :guilabel:`Save`,
you need to ensure that relevant versions of your documentation are built again.

.. tip::

>    We recommend that you set up the first 1-2 projects and try to configure them as much as possible before scaling up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Having multiple different build configuration files can be complex.
   We recommend setting up 1-2 projects in your Monorepo and getting them to build and publish successfully before adding additional projects to the equation.
```

How to use a .readthedocs.yaml file in a sub-folder
===================================================

This guide shows how to configure a Read the Docs project to use a custom path for the ``.readthedocs.yaml`` build configuration.

> *Monorepos* that have multiple documentation projects in the same Git repository can benefit from this feature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:term:`Monorepos` that have multiple documentation projects in the same Git repository can benefit from this feature.
```

I'm not sure if we have it defined, tho 😄

Reviewer: Ah yeah, I would add a glossary item if I could think of something special from RTD's usage of the term. But will just start by linking https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monorepo since it's a pretty good simple article.

By default,
Read the Docs will use the ``.readthedocs.yaml`` at the top level of your Git repository.
This is typically not sufficient for monorepo layouts
when their nested documentation projects need fundamentally different build configurations.

.. seealso::

   `sphinx-multiproject <https://sphinx-multiproject.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__
       If you are only using Sphinx projects and want to share the same build configuration,

>        you can also use the ``sphinx-multiproject`` extension.

Reviewer: Fair enough, but we should definitely wait until it's mature to be recommended to replace other approaches :+1:

>        you can also use the ``sphinx-multiproject`` extension.

Reviewer 2: Well, we are recommending sphinx-multiproject _from_ this feature here, not the other way around. So, I'd remove this recommendation from _here_. Honestly, I don't want more people using `sphinx-multiproject`. That was a temporal _workaround_ and I prefer to not have to deal with migrating off those users in the future.

   :doc:`/guides/environment-variables`
       You might also be able to reuse the same configuration file across multiple projects,
       using only environment variables.
       This is possible if the configuration pattern is very similar and the documentation tool is the same.

Implementation considerations
-------------------------------

This feature is currently *project-wide*.
A custom build configuration file path is applied to all versions of your documentation.

.. warning::

   Changing the configuration path will apply to all versions.
   Different versions of the project may not be able to build again if this path is changed.

Adding an additional project from the same repository
-----------------------------------------------------

Once you have added the first project from the :ref:`Import Wizard <intro/import-guide:Automatically import your docs>`,
it will show as if it has already been imported and cannot be imported again.
In order to add another project with the same repository,

> you will need to use the :ref:`Manual Import <intro/import-guide:Manually import your docs>`.

Reviewer: I have no idea how to track changes necessary in our documentation when launching Dashboard v2.. but it's gonna be a lot.

.. image:: /img/screenshot-howto-build-configuration-file.png
   :alt: Screenshot of where to find the :guilabel:`Build configuration file` setting.

After pressing :guilabel:`Save`,
you need to ensure that relevant versions of your documentation are built again.

.. tip::

   Having multiple different build configuration files can be complex.
   We recommend setting up 1-2 projects in your Monorepo and getting them to build and publish successfully before adding additional projects to the equation.

Next steps
----------

Once you have your monorepo pattern implemented and tested and it's ready to roll out to all your projects,
you should also consider the Read the Docs project setup for these individual projects.

Having individual projects gives you the full flexibility of the Read the Docs platform to make individual setups for each project.

For each project, it's now possible to configure:

* Sets of maintainers (or :doc:`organizations </commercial/organizations>` on |com_brand|)
* :doc:`Custom redirect rules </guides/custom-domains>`
* :doc:`Custom domains </guides/custom-domains>`
* :doc:`Automation rules </automation-rules>`

> * :doc:`Traffic and search analytics </reference/analytics>`

Reviewer 2: It would be good to mention that different doctools can be used here as well. This is gonna be a key feature for this, I guess.

Reviewer: I mentioned it now :+1: 

It would be a lot easier to mention support for generic doctools (static site generators) quickly if we had a good article about specifically "How to use any documentation tool" or something like that.

I referenced our build customization, but I think we could really benefit from having something much more generic?

The how-to could contain example code or references to existing example projects... but that could be developed over time.
